1]]Maven lifecycle
validate - validate the project is correct and all necessary information is available
compile - compile the source code of the project
test - test the compiled source code using a suitable unit testing framework. These tests should not require the code be packaged or deployed
package - take the compiled code and package it in its distributable format, such as a JAR.
verify - run any checks on results of integration tests to ensure quality criteria are met
install - install the package into the local repository, for use as a dependency in other projects locally
deploy - done in the build environment, copies the final package to the remote repository for sharing with other developers and projects

2]]Description
mvn --version - it shows which version we are using
mvn compile - Compiles source code of the project
mvn test - Runs tests for project
mvn clean - attempts to clean the files and directories generated by Maven during its build
mvn install - runs the install plugin used in the install phase to add artifact(s) to the local repository

3]]What is web services
A web service is a set of open protocols and standards that allow data to be exchanged between different applications or systems.
Web services can be used by software programs written in a variety of programming languages and running on a variety of platforms to exchange data via computer networks such as
the Internet in a similar way to inter-process communication on a single computer.
	Functions of Web Services
	-It’s possible to access it via the internet or intranet networks.
	-XML messaging protocol that is standardized.
	-Operating system or programming language independent.
	-Using the XML standard, it is self-describing.
	-A simple location approach can be used to locate it.
	Components of Web Service
	-SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol)
	-UDDI (Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration)
	-WSDL (Web Services Description Language)

4]]What is rest controller
RestController is a Spring annotation that is used to build REST API in a declarative way.
RestController annotation is applied to a class to mark it as a request handler, and Spring will do the building and provide the RESTful web service at runtime.

5]]Web Services methods
Following four HTTP methods are commonly used in REST based architecture.
GET − Provides a read only access to a resource.
POST − Used to create a new resource.
DELETE − Used to remove a resource.
PUT − Used to update a existing resource or create a new resource.

6]]Git life cycle
-You clone the Git repository as a working copy.
-You modify the working copy by adding/editing files.
-If necessary, you also update the working copy by taking other developer's changes.
-You review the changes before commit.
-You commit changes. If everything is fine, then you push the changes to the repository.
-After committing, if you realize something is wrong, then you correct the last commit and push the changes to the repository.

7]]Git commands
git init - one way to start a new project with Git
git add - adds a change in the working directory to the staging area
git commit - captures a snapshot of the project's currently staged changes
git pull - used to update the local version of a repository from a remote
git push - used to upload local repository content to a remote repository
git checkout - refers to the action of swaping between different repository branches/files/commits
git log - a utility tool to review and read a history of everything that happens to a repository
git reset -used to undo local changes to the state of a Git repo
git revert - used for undoing changes to a repository's commit history
git merge - allows you to merge branches from Git

8]]centrally controlled system vs distributed system
Centrally controlled system - A hardware and/or software IT system in which all parts of it are controlled by a central controller/server/mainframe.
Distributed system - A hardware and/or software IT system in which various parts of the control and/or processing are controlled by individual controllers/servers/computers throughout the system.
Centrally controlled system
Advantages - Easy to control
Disadvantages - If the controller is damaged the whole system will stop working, the system will be overloaded
Distributed system
Advantages - If one part is broken down the system will continue working
Disadvantages - Data loss can happen because the parts of the system will have to share the data with other parts, finding errors in the system will be much harder